Hello you fantastic go to people in this video.
I'm going to show you why auto tiles are awesome and auto tile is a special kind of tile map.
You might rember timeouts from hoppy days when we made the level we as a time at Jesus paint the platforms
in this video on this show you can set up a special kind of tile map so that the tiles automatically
figure out or possibly even alter magically figure out the configuration that should be in automatically
is not a real word.
But I feel like it should be.
Now there's gonna be multiple parts of video.
This video is gonna be about setting up a bit mask so that the tiles are set up correctly in a future
video will look at how to add collision to it and we might even have navigation before we go into any
further and she had to set these up.
There can be a little fiddly.
Let's talk about the pros and cons of water tiles because they're not gonna be right for every project.
Pros and cons of auto tiling.
Let's stop the pros.
First it makes making levels much faster rather than drag in each tile individually and place them and
rotate them.
I could just paint I can tweak levels don't like the doors.
Move it done and I could set up collision occlusion and navigation in one place.
Collision.
The thing that stops things moving through each other.
We understand that occlusion automatic shadows we're gonna be using that a lot in this game navigation
we could put a navigation map directly into the tile map the auto tiles which would allow NPC has to
walk through stuff we might do that we might not.
I'm hesitating because I also want to put furniture in the game and the furniture is gonna get in the
way of the navigation but let's see how we go.
What are the cons called Number One.
Initial setup is fiddly and time consuming.
Getting these right can take a lot of time.
Con number 2.
Initial setup is you know what all three cons of the same but there are really good cons so I wanted
to drive it home by repeating it three times.
We also want to figure out what bit masking is before we get there before I start you know lecturing
for too long.
Let's get together and actually make an altar tile.
First you need to do is define my tiles so I'm going to add a new scene 2D scene and call this tile
sheet.
I'm going to add a sprite.
Now you might remember we did this in hoppy days.
Each sprite was a different platform committee something a little different here and you go into graphics
tile sheet you'll see what two they're actually identical.
This one is just a high resolution if you want to use it for retina displays.
I don't.
So I'm just going to use this one drag into texture and there is a single texture and I'm going to convert
it convert to tile set and you might be thinking to yourself yeah.
Why would you do that.
That's a terrible title which I say oh ye of little faith.
If you all say that yourself it's kind of weird.
The new folder I'm going to call this folder tiles and I'm going to save my tiles dot TR s in there.
OK.
We now have a tile a single tile that is a sheet.
Don't worry we can fix that.
Save my tiles sheet as well.
In the same folder so I can tweak it if I need to.
And now I don't need it let's close it and open a new scene as a 2D scene.
And let's rename the no TDM Nicolas template level.
The idea is we can work on this to make it right and then we can start inheriting from it and extending
it to make level so all levels will inherit from this template.
It's going to make things very easy.
Every level needs a tile map done and the tile map needs a tile set.
Two ways we can do this.
We can just drag it sucked in my tiles and put it here.
Other way to do it is like it load it like so and do the exact same thing.
Okay so you'll see something a bit like this.
If you've done it right.
If not go back into your tile sheet bought it and it should work.
I know that save template level while I'm at it and go back up a level New Folder levels and you can
call template level.
Great.
OK.
This is clearly not going to work.
I'm a click on a tiles at Yes and this will come up and you know what let's make this bigger and expand
it.
There we go.
I can retract it again if I need to but that looks good and is going a few things we need to do.
The first thing is I'm going to rename tiles zero tile zero is in court walls and let's click on the
actual tile sheet.
Now I can make a new single tile which will just tell it.
Okay isolate one tile and add it just like we did with Happy Days instead of lots of different sprites
wouldn't have a single sheet and just take a little cutout of it.
The benefit of doing it that way is we don't have to load as many sprites into memories just one giant
asset as opposed to lots of little ones.
An Atlas is a way of setting up lots of individual single tiles in one go.
So I say make these into single tiles and say you have this many single tiles.
Happy birthday and I'll say it's not my birthday.
What I want is a new auto tile because auto tiles are awesome.
You'll notice it says what's your region.
Well let's click on SNAP and that's a problem right.
These squares are 32 by 32.
I don't want 32 by 32.
I want 64 by 64 to fix that.
I'm going to come out of the time map go back into it.
Click it again.
And now when I go to edit it I'll have a snap options right here.
So let's change the 64 by 64.
Great.
And now good to pick which walls I want.
I've got three potential ones I must stick with these orange ones for now.
I can always add the others in later.
OK there's my region.
Nicely done.
I have noticed that this is not an auto style.
So let's remove that and try that again.
New auto styles like my region.
That's my region.
How do I know.
No not at all.
There's no big mosque.
But yeah.
You say what's a bit mask.
You know I'm glad you asked.
A bit mask is the way that God is going to figure out what tiled to do in those two basic forms.
There is a two by two and a three by three.
And so what is going to do is say OK I've got a mask over it in these bits right so each tile has two
by two or three by three bits.
So let's say I want to extend this way I told the Wall is up here.
If that's the case I'll have painted a bit mask in the corner and I again here to my two there's less
information there are less possible tiles in a three by three.
There is more information there are more possible tiles she points out that we also have three by three
minimal three by three but mask need all possible combinations including diagonals but the minimal is
dumped.
We're going to be using three by three minimal.
Let's see what that looks like.
I'm impressed bit mask and then under here on the selected tile we've got some options.
And this is the one we want.
If we don't set this none of this will work.
So we want three my three minimal important three my three minimal if you do three by three you're going
to get weird results you're not going to like.
So you know.
Let's zoom in a bit on whole control and my mouse button and we've defined our regions.
If I try painting a bit mosque out here on work but if I paint it in here at will.
Right.
And let's just get rid of all these machines.
Press this erase button here and what I want to do.
Is paint like this anywhere.
There's a wall.
I'm not going to use.
So here is a wall there and there.
Each tile is split into a three by three grid.
So that's going to take me a little while and I'm almost certain to miss something and if I miss one
I'm gonna get weird results.
So this is the first part that's going to take a bit of patience.
It's the first time I recorded this course.
I just fast forwarded through this so people could watch me do it.
And as a result people were constantly frustrated that they're making little mistakes and did monies
or to tile.
So I'm just going to do it at the same time as you.
And if I make a mistake.
Great.
We can learn from it together.
La la la la what I'm doing.
Otherwise I'm left clicking to paint him and if I want to remove them just right click.
Nice and simple.
Great UI.
So what I want is to make sure that any part of the grid on the tile that has a wall isn't covered.
Like so and if I've set this up correctly which I probably haven't
if I've set this up correctly which I think I have but I probably haven't we should go to paint with
it.
Let's find out Tom up and I cannot paint my walls and look they're adjusting automatically right.
And I can right click to remove a piece of wall make some corridors hello folks Yan from the future.
Just a quick thing I forgot to mention you might be getting these weird little grid things when you're
not paying to the time up he pays the time up.
Don't worry about these floors.
It's a bit of a spoiler.
It's coming later in the video but you're getting these weird little lines in here and you don't want
them.
How can you get rid of the lines.
The answer is actually nothing to do with the tile map.
You've done nothing wrong if you're seeing this.
The answer has to do with how God is bringing in the tile sheet you see here of what you got selected.
Guns my graphics guns the tile sheet look at import.
You'll notice by default filter will be on or filter is doing is trying to sort out the edges that are
more real.
But in this case we don't want that when you precise edges not blended images.
So on a UN ticket and press re import and all of those will go away.
OK that's enough in the future.
Back to present day Janusz and greyhounds you'll also notice by the way it's actually very hard to see
the walls the floor.
That's because this grey color that Kenny is using is coincidentally very close to God as default background
color.
Let's fix that project.
Project settings and I'm just going to do a quick search for color and under rendering environment default
clear color.
You can be black.
There we go.
And now I can see the walls right now that they're the obvious.
OK so I currently have a pretty simple little level tool.
Let's make this more awesome.
Let's go back into a tile sheet and you know what.
Let's add in the new tiles on the click on this again and I'll make a new altar tile boot and from here
I'm going to find some floor sections I like.
We have these four sections up here.
We're using this orange one of you is a slightly different floor we used carpet or grass.
I'm going to use these floors here.
So let's make our region just still be set up correctly.
And the bit mask.
Now this time there's only going to be one possibility.
One two three muses horizontal floors.
And that looks good.
So let's tile is going to be called floor one and give it a name cool floor.
We can do some other stuff with it right.
Right now it's got an icon that we can set.
So it's set that icon.
We also as a priority if I click on one of them you have a one in three chance and see if two and three
a two and four chance of being that style a one in four chance of being this one and a one in four chance
of being that one.
OK so why is that awesome.
It's going to Tom map and I have some flaws and now I can paint flaws into the level
and if I want to I can overwrite floors with walls only one of these tiles can be in this position that
same time.
But look we have a nice simple way of making that awesome don't like this icon for the walls and the
tweak that let's go into the tile sheet again and we to edit it.
So let's get the right one.
We are on floors left arrow.
We are on walls.
Cook your icon is going to be this one that's your icon.
Let's take a look.
I've got floor 1 and walls.
I can also make a floor too.
Let's make a full too real quick just for the practice.
So New Order tile and it's in the same regions before excuse me maybe Bobby big D did I ever see it.
There it is.
And this time it's going to be these vertical floors.
So let's do that mask.
One two three and icon is this one that priority is going to be you have a two and four chance you have
one of four you have a one in full when you floors two or floor two.
All right.
And now we have a nice way of putting in different rooms right.
So that could be a little comedy bit and we could put walls around it.
Look how cool this is.
Right.
I can really quickly paint walls and I can just draw them out like this.
There's all kinds of fun stuff you can do.
Could even do bucket fill what's bucket fill.
I'll show you make a nice little region like this.
And a messy bucket fill boop boop.
And then back to Phil nice big room.
Which brings me the change this video.
I'd like you to practice alter tanning by making a small test area so make a few rooms and some chorus
link them or whatever you wanna make.
Pause the video give that a shot and when you come back I'll send this video out.
I'm back.
So through the magic of editing I've gotten rid of this but we can do all kinds of wonderful stuff here.
How high
P..
Pull.
And that's my level right.
That's not my level.
That's a terrible level.
I'm to do all of these.
La la la la la.
But we can make some really awesome stuff.
What you could do for extra credit is add in different walls and floors right.
So if I take a look at our top map we have all these different assets we could use so maybe part of
your level is these nice orange walls.
These wooden walls these concrete walls.
We also have concrete flooring we could use carpets we could be using.
You can make outdoor areas there's all kinds of amazing stuff you could do here.
I think these are even flower beds that combat edges yet these carpet edges either way all kinds of
fun things make parking lots and really randomize it.
Right.
So when I'm adding these floors and you'll notice because we set up the random chance it's deciding
when to use these varied.
So I don't have to looks a lot more random and that I feel is a great place to end the video.
In this video we've looked at how to convert a tarmac to an altered tile and looked at when to use two
by two three by three or three by three minimal bit masks.
There's still more to come but hopefully I can see the awesome power of older tiles.
Meanwhile excellent luck and I'll see you in the next video.